# SLPSO
### Self-adaptive learning based particle swarm optimization
Particle swarm optimization (PSO) is a population-based stochastic search technique for solving optimization problems over continuous space, which has been proven to be efﬁ-cient and effective in wide applications in scientiﬁc and engineering domains. However, the universality of current PSO variants, i.e., their ability to achieve good performance on a variety of different ﬁtness landscapes, is still unsatisfying. For many practical problems, where the ﬁtness landscapes are usually unknown, employing a trial-and-error scheme to search for the most suitable PSO variant is computationally expensive. Therefore, it is nec-essary to develop a more adaptive and robust PSO version to provide users a black-box tool for various application problems. In this paper, we propose a self-adaptive learning based PSO (SLPSO) to make up the above demerits. SLPSO simultaneously adopts four PSO based search strategies. A probability model is used to describe the probability of a strategy being used to update a particle. The model is self-adaptively improved according to the strate-gies’ ability of generating better quality solutions in the past generations. In order to eval-uate the performance of SLPSO, we compare it with eight state-of-the-art PSO variants on 26 numerical optimization problems with different characteristics such as uni-modality, multi-modality, rotation, ill-condition, mis-scale and noise. The experimental results clearly verify the advantages of SLPSO. Moreover, a practical engineering problem, the eco-nomic load dispatch problem of power systems (ELD), is used to further evaluate SLPSO. Compared with the previous effective ELD evolutionary algorithms, SLPSO can update the best solution records.

**Reference: Self-adaptive learning based particle swarm optimization,Yu Wang, Bin Li,Thomas Weise,Jianyu Wang,Bo Yuan,Qiongjie Tian**
